[Music]
hello this is chef john from food wishes
calm with colcannon that's right
colcannon named of course after the
famous weapon used by the leprechauns to
defeat the Vikings that built Stonehenge
in the famous Second Battle of Blarney
Castle and of course I'm just kidding
everybody knows it was the Third Battle
of Blarney Castle anyway it's an
amazingly delicious potato dish and very
traditional for st. Patrick's Day and
here is how you put it together so we're
gonna put our potatoes on to boil
I have russet potatoes i quartered we
want to boil those in salted water until
perfectly tender and while those are
simmering I'm gonna go ahead and prep my
greens so I'm gonna use a big old
handful of kale it's about four or five
ounces all right my market sells it
already chopped up in bags so all I need
to do is sort of peel off those bigger
stems I just want the leaves all right
you can also use Swiss chard you can use
cabbage you could use a lot of things
okay so my Cal is prepped I'm also gonna
chop up a leek now you can do this with
just green onions but I really do enjoy
leeks so I'm gonna have those and slice
them across and I'm gonna stick with the
white and light green parts see those
dark green parts those can be very very
fibrous and tough all right so you don't
want to use too much of that especially
since this is not gonna cook very long
all right we're just gonna give these a
quick blanch and of course those need to
be rinsed really well leeks sometimes
have a lot of sand in them I'm gonna add
that to the kale and lastly I'm gonna
chop up a bunch of green onions and by
the way save a little bit to garnish the
top later so I'm gonna toss those in a
blender I'm gonna go ahead and blanch
the kale and leeks and boiling salted
water so what we're gonna do here is
we're gonna bring the water to a boil
dump in the vegetables give it a good
mix this is on high heat of course when
that comes back to a boil we're gonna
cook that for about five to six minutes
all right the vegetables are gonna stay
green but they're just gonna tenderize
slightly and remember we're gonna grind
this down in the blender anyway alright
so again mine came back to a boil boiled
for five minutes
I fished it out with my strainer all
right so we're gonna toss that into a
blender and puree it with some butter
and you know the drill
just keep pulsing it on and off on and
off you're gonna have to really use your
spatula to scrape it down alright
there's not a lot of liquid in here
which is good there's nothing worse than
watery colcannon and yes we're both
thinking the same thing he forgot to put
in the butt
I did so I put it in right here all
right and another tip besides put it in
at the same time as the Greens use
room-temperature butter my butter was
cold and rock-hard so it was really hard
to puree in here so this took me like
three or four minutes if your butter
soft this is only gonna taking a minute
anyway regardless puree that in a
blender until fairly fine and reserve
until needed
all right theoretically by this point
your potatoes are cooked
you're gonna drain them extremely well
put them back into the dry pot mash them
with a little bit of butter but not all
the way all right just to get it started
because what we're gonna do we're gonna
add our green stuff and we're gonna mash
that in and you're gonna see as soon as
you start mashing that Cal and leek and
onion mixture in the color just turns
into this incredibly beautiful shade of
green is it clover green is it emerald
green is it Boston Celtic green I don't
know it reminds me of spraying and it
makes me happy all right we're almost
done here I'm gonna go ahead and season
this with some salt and pepper to taste
what about cayenne how do you use any do
they use cayenne in Ireland
all right somebody report back to me on
that and then last but not least if you
want to put in just a little small
splash of cream or milk or you know what
I wish I had homemade creme fraiche but
a little touch of dairy here at the end
lightens it up and that is done all
right I'm gonna spoon that into an Irish
style bowl and I think it's actually a
law you must
garnish your colcannon with butter
that's right more butter on top it's
gonna melt into those steaming hot
potatoes and it's gonna make it
basically irresistible I'm gonna finish
with some fresh green onion and that is
by far my favorite traditional st.
Patrick's Day food
all right let's Riverdance this fork
into that pile of buttery goodness and
some recipes I just don't even need to
explain how good that's going to be all
right those comforting buttery potatoes
that beautiful earthy green kale all
right the slight pungency from the onion
and the leek just a perfect perfect
springtime treat and one I hope you try
for your st. Patrick's Day feast anyway
head over to food whooshes calm for all
the ingredient amounts and more info as
usual and as always enjoy
[Music]
you